src/content/posts/2024/junior-eurovision-2024.md, before:

---
title: Junior Eurovision 2024 — My rankings
date: 2024-11-16
draft: false
tags: ['Eurovision']
---

# Junior Eurovision 2024 — My rankings

I ranked the seventeen contestants in Junior Eurovision 2024 during the live show today, before the public vote opened.
(Or re-opened; they allowed early voting before the show.)

As ever with the contest, this is my opinion of the songs and staging, not the kids themselves; they all did great.

The United Kingdom did not compete this year.
Instead we got Cyprus and San Marino, which hadn’t participated since 2017 and 2015 respectively.

1. 🇪🇸 Spain — Chloe DelaRosa — <span lang="es">Como La Lola</span> <sup><a href="#footnotes">(footnote 1)</a></sup>
1. 🇵🇹 Portugal — Victoria Nicole — <span lang="pt">Esperança</span>
1. 🇫🇷 France — Titouan — <span lang="fr">Comme ci comme ça</span>
1. 🇦🇲 Armenia — Leo — <span lang="en">Cosmic Friend</span>
1. 🇺🇦 Ukraine — Artem Kotenko — <span lang="en">HEAR ME NOW</span>
1. 🇮🇹 Italy — Simone Grande — <span lang="it">Pigiama Party</span> <sup><a href="#footnotes">(footnote 2)</a></sup>
1. 🇪🇪 Estonia — ANNABELLE — <span lang="ee">Tänavad</span>
1. 🇲🇹 Malta — Ramires Sciberras — <span lang="mt">Stilla Ċkejkna</span>
1. 🇩🇪 Germany — Bjarne — <span lang="en">Save The Best For Us</span>
1. 🇬🇪 Georgia — Andria Putkaradze — To My Mom</span> <sup><a href="#footnotes">(footnote 3)</a></sup>
1. 🇮🇪 Ireland — Enya Cox Dempsey — <span lang="ga">Le Chéile</span>
1. 🇦🇱 Albania — Nikol Çabeli — <span lang="sq">Vallëzoj</span>
1. 🇲🇰 North Macedonia — Ana and Aleksej — <span lang="en">Marathon</span>
1. 🇨🇾 Cyprus — Maria Pissarides — <span lang="en">Crystal Waters</span> <sup><a href="#footnotes">(footnote 4)</a></sup>
1. 🇵🇱 Poland — Dominik Arim — <span lang="en">All Together</span> <sup><a href="#footnotes">(footnote 5)</a></sup>
1. 🇸🇲 San Marino — Idols SM — <span lang="it">Come Noi</span>
1. 🇳🇱 Netherlands — Stay Tuned — <span lang="en">Music</span>

## Footnotes

1. 🇪🇸 Last year’s flag parade used the Jain song <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=59Q_lhgGANc">“Makeba”</a>, which was a tribute to Miriam Makeba. This year the host country wrote an entire song about a titaness of music, Lola Flores. And the contest’s slogan this year is “Let’s Bloom”, which fits with Flores’ surname! She’s really getting her flowers.
1. 🇮🇹 Trampoline bed!
1. 🇬🇪 The lyrics are quite poetic, comparing maternal love to the sun, sky, and snow. The snow is described as pink. Let’s assume it makes more sense in Georgian.
1. 🇨🇾 Weirdly enough for a song about waters, the dance-break and some of the graphics were more <span lang="es">Fuego</span> (Cyprus’s song from adult Eurovision 2018).
1. 🇵🇱 I imagine the “Let’s Bloom” slogan is why Poland’s lyric is, “I’m not afraid to bloom like a flower.” But Albania out-flower-powered them with a song about dancing with a flower. Take that, Poland.

Commit message:

Another link & Lola Flores reference in JESC 2024 post

src/content/posts/2024/junior-eurovision-2024.md, after:

---
title: Junior Eurovision 2024 — My rankings
date: 2024-11-16
draft: false
tags: ['Eurovision']
---

# Junior Eurovision 2024 — My rankings

I ranked the seventeen contestants in Junior Eurovision 2024 during the live show today, before the public vote opened.
(Or re-opened; they allowed early voting before the show.)

As ever with the contest, this is my opinion of the songs and staging, not the kids themselves; they all did great.

The United Kingdom did not compete this year.
Instead we got Cyprus and San Marino, which hadn’t participated since 2017 and 2015 respectively.

1. 🇪🇸 Spain — Chloe DelaRosa — <span lang="es">Como La Lola</span> <sup><a href="#footnotes">(footnote 1)</a></sup>
1. 🇵🇹 Portugal — Victoria Nicole — <span lang="pt">Esperança</span>
1. 🇫🇷 France — Titouan — <span lang="fr">Comme ci comme ça</span>
1. 🇦🇲 Armenia — Leo — <span lang="en">Cosmic Friend</span>
1. 🇺🇦 Ukraine — Artem Kotenko — <span lang="en">HEAR ME NOW</span>
1. 🇮🇹 Italy — Simone Grande — <span lang="it">Pigiama Party</span> <sup><a href="#footnotes">(footnote 2)</a></sup>
1. 🇪🇪 Estonia — ANNABELLE — <span lang="ee">Tänavad</span>
1. 🇲🇹 Malta — Ramires Sciberras — <span lang="mt">Stilla Ċkejkna</span>
1. 🇩🇪 Germany — Bjarne — <span lang="en">Save The Best For Us</span>
1. 🇬🇪 Georgia — Andria Putkaradze — To My Mom</span> <sup><a href="#footnotes">(footnote 3)</a></sup>
1. 🇮🇪 Ireland — Enya Cox Dempsey — <span lang="ga">Le Chéile</span>
1. 🇦🇱 Albania — Nikol Çabeli — <span lang="sq">Vallëzoj</span>
1. 🇲🇰 North Macedonia — Ana and Aleksej — <span lang="en">Marathon</span>
1. 🇨🇾 Cyprus — Maria Pissarides — <span lang="en">Crystal Waters</span> <sup><a href="#footnotes">(footnote 4)</a></sup>
1. 🇵🇱 Poland — Dominik Arim — <span lang="en">All Together</span> <sup><a href="#footnotes">(footnote 5)</a></sup>
1. 🇸🇲 San Marino — Idols SM — <span lang="it">Come Noi</span>
1. 🇳🇱 Netherlands — Stay Tuned — <span lang="en">Music</span>

## Footnotes

1. 🇪🇸 Last year’s flag parade used the Jain song <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=59Q_lhgGANc">“Makeba”</a>, which was a tribute to Miriam Makeba. This year the host country wrote an entire song about a titaness of music, Lola Flores. And the contest’s slogan this year is “Let’s Bloom”, which fits with Flores’ surname! She’s really getting her flowers.
1. 🇮🇹 Trampoline bed!
1. 🇬🇪 The lyrics are quite poetic, comparing maternal love to the sun, sky, and snow. The snow is described as pink. Let’s assume it makes more sense in Georgian.
1. 🇨🇾 Weirdly enough for a song about waters, the dance-break and some of the graphics were more <a lang="es" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vyDTbJ4wenY">“Fuego”</a> (Cyprus’s song from adult Eurovision 2018).
1. 🇵🇱 I imagine the “Let’s Bloom” slogan is why Poland’s lyric is, “I’m not afraid to bloom like a flower.” But Albania out-flower-powered them with a song about dancing with a flower. Take that, Poland. You’ll have to make do with second place in terms of flower allusions (or third if we count Chloe DelaRosa having a rose in her name and singing about Flores). 🌹
