src/content/posts/2022/good-things-2022.md, before:

---
date: 2022-12-31
title: Good things happening to me in 2022
draft: false
tags: ['Annual review']
---

# Good things happening to me in 2022

## Work

I used the [Nest.js](https://nestjs.com/) framework to make three web services (Restful APIs, application programming interfaces using Representational State Transfer). The services comply with the Open API standard through [Swagger](https://swagger.io), which generates documentation about what they do and how to use them. Interoperability and standardisation — I like that!

Despite the similarities in the names, Nest.js is [very much not the same](./web-technologies-with-confusing-names) as Next.js. (See the section below on my personal coding.)

And I built my first website with [Angular](https://angular.io), the popular framework for making web UIs (user interfaces) with JavaScript.

Despite the similarities in the functionalities, Angular is also very much not the same as Next.js!

## Personal coding

I made this blog to keep some of my thoughts about things going on in my life. It uses the [Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev) static-site-generator.

I converted my Latin website, [velut](https://www.velut.co.uk), to the Next.js framework, giving it server-side rendering. This means you can access it without having JavaScript enabled in your browser; it’s also better for search-engine optimisation and for users of assistive technologies such as screen-readers. It’s faster too, at least for UK visitors. I wrote an article on [how I made the switch to Next.js](./porting-velut-to-nextjs/).

My efforts to reduce velut’s reliance on Microsoft Excel continued, in accordance with a [plan](https://github.com/DuncanRitchie/velut/blob/main/plan.md) I put on GitHub. I made a [JavaScript script](https://www.duncanritchie.co.uk/velut-word-data-generator/) for generating certain data for every Latin word I have. Then I started writing a [script for generating more Latin words](https://www.duncanritchie.co.uk/velut-inflector/), by applying the rules of Latin inflection to the headwords (lemmata) that I have. I expect to finish this second script sometime in 2023.

## Holidays

In April I had a couple of weeks in the Scottish Highlands with my parents. We visited Portknockie’s Bow-Fiddle Rock, a natural rock formation; I also enjoyed looking at the fulmars, shags, razorbills, and other birds roosting nearby.

<figure>
<img alt="A rocky cove containing a rock arch that is curved like a fiddle’s bow" width="600" style="aspect-ratio: 4/3;" src="./images/bow-fiddle-rock.webp" />
<figcaption>Bow-Fiddle Rock</figcaption>
</figure>

<style>
	#ravens-figure, #ravens-figure div {
		max-width: 450px;
	}
	@media (min-width: 950px) {
		#ravens-figure, #ravens-figure div {
			max-width: 900px;
		}
	}
</style>

<figure id="ravens-figure" style="margin-top: -3px;">
<div style="display: flex; flex-wrap: wrap;">
<img alt="Raven flying over the sea; it has a diamond-shaped tail" width="450" style="aspect-ratio: 3/2;" src="./images/raven-flying.webp" />
<img alt="Raven on a cliff; much of its torso is hidden behind the grass" width="450" style="aspect-ratio: 3/2;" src="./images/raven-on-cliff.webp" />
</div>
<figcaption>Raven at Portknockie</figcaption>
</figure>

In May I went on a boat-trip around Puffin Island, a small Welsh isle home to many sea-birds. There were no puffins to be seen, but I very much enjoyed my time nonetheless, and I wrote a [blog article](./words-for-puffin) because I had a lot of words to say about fraterculine feathered friends.

And in July/August, I had another couple of weeks in Scotland with my parents. My mum and I saw five ospreys, including a family of four. Even more unexpectedly, my dad and I (and my sister and the dog) went for a swim in a river in the Cairngorms. It wasn’t very cold. A heatwave that included Britain’s hottest recorded temperature ever had just finished.

## Other birdlife

I saw stock doves and teal while walking the dog.

<figure>
<img alt="Stock dove amid brickwork" width="450" style="aspect-ratio: 4/3;" src="./images/stock-dove.webp" />
<figcaption>Stock dove</figcaption>
</figure>

Commit message:

2022 review post says I’m using Astro

src/content/posts/2022/good-things-2022.md, after:

---
date: 2022-12-31
title: Good things happening to me in 2022
draft: false
tags: ['Annual review']
---

# Good things happening to me in 2022

## Work

I used the [Nest.js](https://nestjs.com/) framework to make three web services (Restful APIs, application programming interfaces using Representational State Transfer). The services comply with the Open API standard through [Swagger](https://swagger.io), which generates documentation about what they do and how to use them. Interoperability and standardisation — I like that!

Despite the similarities in the names, Nest.js is [very much not the same](./web-technologies-with-confusing-names) as Next.js. (See the section below on my personal coding.)

And I built my first website with [Angular](https://angular.io), the popular framework for making web UIs (user interfaces) with JavaScript.

Despite the similarities in the functionalities, Angular is also very much not the same as Next.js!

## Personal coding

I made this blog to keep some of my thoughts about things going on in my life. <del datetime="2023-02-03">It uses the [Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev) static-site-generator.</del> <ins datetime="2023-02-03">Update from early 2023: my blog’s now in [Astro](https://astro.build).</ins>

I converted my Latin website, [velut](https://www.velut.co.uk), to the Next.js framework, giving it server-side rendering. This means you can access it without having JavaScript enabled in your browser; it’s also better for search-engine optimisation and for users of assistive technologies such as screen-readers. It’s faster too, at least for UK visitors. I wrote an article on [how I made the switch to Next.js](./porting-velut-to-nextjs/).

My efforts to reduce velut’s reliance on Microsoft Excel continued, in accordance with a [plan](https://github.com/DuncanRitchie/velut/blob/main/plan.md) I put on GitHub. I made a [JavaScript script](https://www.duncanritchie.co.uk/velut-word-data-generator/) for generating certain data for every Latin word I have. Then I started writing a [script for generating more Latin words](https://www.duncanritchie.co.uk/velut-inflector/), by applying the rules of Latin inflection to the headwords (lemmata) that I have. I expect to finish this second script sometime in 2023.

## Holidays

In April I had a couple of weeks in the Scottish Highlands with my parents. We visited Portknockie’s Bow-Fiddle Rock, a natural rock formation; I also enjoyed looking at the fulmars, shags, razorbills, and other birds roosting nearby.

<figure>
<img alt="A rocky cove containing a rock arch that is curved like a fiddle’s bow" width="600" style="aspect-ratio: 4/3;" src="./images/bow-fiddle-rock.webp" />
<figcaption>Bow-Fiddle Rock</figcaption>
</figure>

<style>
	#ravens-figure, #ravens-figure div {
		max-width: 450px;
	}
	@media (min-width: 950px) {
		#ravens-figure, #ravens-figure div {
			max-width: 900px;
		}
	}
</style>

<figure id="ravens-figure" style="margin-top: -3px;">
<div style="display: flex; flex-wrap: wrap;">
<img alt="Raven flying over the sea; it has a diamond-shaped tail" width="450" style="aspect-ratio: 3/2;" src="./images/raven-flying.webp" />
<img alt="Raven on a cliff; much of its torso is hidden behind the grass" width="450" style="aspect-ratio: 3/2;" src="./images/raven-on-cliff.webp" />
</div>
<figcaption>Raven at Portknockie</figcaption>
</figure>

In May I went on a boat-trip around Puffin Island, a small Welsh isle home to many sea-birds. There were no puffins to be seen, but I very much enjoyed my time nonetheless, and I wrote a [blog article](./words-for-puffin) because I had a lot of words to say about fraterculine feathered friends.

And in July/August, I had another couple of weeks in Scotland with my parents. My mum and I saw five ospreys, including a family of four. Even more unexpectedly, my dad and I (and my sister and the dog) went for a swim in a river in the Cairngorms. It wasn’t very cold. A heatwave that included Britain’s hottest recorded temperature ever had just finished.

## Other birdlife

I saw stock doves and teal while walking the dog.

<figure>
<img alt="Stock dove amid brickwork" width="450" style="aspect-ratio: 4/3;" src="./images/stock-dove.webp" />
<figcaption>Stock dove</figcaption>
</figure>
