src/content/posts/2022/junior-eurovision-2022.md, before:

---
title: Junior Eurovision 2022 — My rankings
date: 2022-12-10
draft: false
tags: ['Eurovision']
---

# Junior Eurovision 2022 — My rankings

I’ve been following the adult Eurovision Song Contest since I was small, because the UK has consistently participated and it’s always been on BBC TV.

However, the UK has never entered the junior version of the contest, and so I’ve never paid much attention to it, until recently. My country is making its Junior Eurovision début in 2022, and I started this blog this year too, so I figured I should write this article, like I’ve done for [previous contests](tags/eurovision/).

I ranked the sixteen songs in Junior Eurovision 2022, having seen the music videos but not any live performances. This is a reflection of my taste in music, rather than judgement on the performers; the kids are all great.

1. 🇲🇰 North Macedonia — Lara feat. Jovan & Irina — <span lang="mk">Životot E Pred Mene</span>
1. 🇮🇹 Italy — Chanel Dilecta — <span lang="it">BLA BLA BLA</span>
1. 🇪🇸 Spain — Carlos Higes — <span lang="es">Señorita</span>
1. 🇦🇱 Albania — Kejtlin Gjata — <span lang="sq">Pakëz Diell</span>
1. 🇮🇪 Ireland — Sophie Lennon — <span lang="ga">Solas</span>
1. 🇦🇲 Armenia — Nare — <span lang="en">DANCE!</span>
1. 🇺🇦 Ukraine — Zlata Dziunka — <span lang="uk">Nezlamna</span> (Unbreakable)
1. 🇬🇧 United Kingdom — Freya Skye — <span lang="en">Lose My Head</span>
1. 🇲🇹 Malta — Gaia Gambuzza — <span lang="en">Diamonds In The Skies</span>
1. 🇷🇸 Serbia — Katarina Savić — <span lang="sr">Svet Bez Granica</span>
1. 🇫🇷 France — Lissandro — <span lang="fr">Oh Maman!</span>
1. 🇵🇱 Poland — Laura — <span lang="en">To The Moon</span>
1. 🇬🇪 Georgia — Mariam Bigvava — <span lang="en">I Believe</span>
1. 🇵🇹 Portugal — Nicolas Alves — <span lang="pt">Anos 70</span>
1. 🇳🇱 Netherlands — Luna — <span lang="it">La Festa</span>
1. 🇰🇿 Kazakhstan — David Charlin — <span lang="kk">Jer-Ana</span> (Mother Earth)

   <br>The song on this list that lives up to its title the least.
   <br>The song on this list that lives up to its title the most.
   <br>There’s a moment of silence between the bridge and the chorus, and it makes the song sound disjointed.
   <br>Love the environmentalist message, but the song’s a bit dull.

Commit message:

Improved footnotes on JESC2022 post

src/content/posts/2022/junior-eurovision-2022.md, after:

---
title: Junior Eurovision 2022 — My rankings
date: 2022-12-10
draft: false
tags: ['Eurovision']
---

# Junior Eurovision 2022 — My rankings

I’ve been following the adult Eurovision Song Contest since I was small, because the UK has consistently participated and it’s always been on BBC TV.

However, the UK has never entered the junior version of the contest, and so I’ve never paid much attention to it, until recently. My country is making its Junior Eurovision début in 2022, and I started this blog this year too, so I figured I should write this article, like I’ve done for [previous contests](tags/eurovision/).

I ranked the sixteen songs in Junior Eurovision 2022, having seen the music videos but not any live performances. This is a reflection of my taste in music, rather than judgement on the performers; the kids are all great.

1. 🇲🇰 North Macedonia — Lara feat. Jovan & Irina — <span lang="mk">Životot E Pred Mene</span>
1. 🇮🇹 Italy — Chanel Dilecta — <span lang="it">BLA BLA BLA</span> <sup><a href="#footnotes">(footnote 1)</a></sup>
1. 🇪🇸 Spain — Carlos Higes — <span lang="es">Señorita</span>
1. 🇦🇱 Albania — Kejtlin Gjata — <span lang="sq">Pakëz Diell</span>
1. 🇮🇪 Ireland — Sophie Lennon — <span lang="ga">Solas</span>
1. 🇦🇲 Armenia — Nare — <span lang="en">DANCE!</span> <sup><a href="#footnotes">(footnote 2)</a></sup>
1. 🇺🇦 Ukraine — Zlata Dziunka — <span lang="uk">Nezlamna</span> (Unbreakable)
1. 🇬🇧 United Kingdom — Freya Skye — <span lang="en">Lose My Head</span>
1. 🇲🇹 Malta — Gaia Gambuzza — <span lang="en">Diamonds In The Skies</span>
1. 🇷🇸 Serbia — Katarina Savić — <span lang="sr">Svet Bez Granica</span>
1. 🇫🇷 France — Lissandro — <span lang="fr">Oh Maman!</span>
1. 🇵🇱 Poland — Laura — <span lang="en">To The Moon</span>
1. 🇬🇪 Georgia — Mariam Bigvava — <span lang="en">I Believe</span>
1. 🇵🇹 Portugal — Nicolas Alves — <span lang="pt">Anos 70</span>
1. 🇳🇱 Netherlands — Luna — <span lang="it">La Festa</span> <sup><a href="#footnotes">(footnote 3)</a></sup>
1. 🇰🇿 Kazakhstan — David Charlin — <span lang="kk">Jer-Ana</span> (Mother Earth) <sup><a href="#footnotes">(footnote 4)</a></sup>

## Footnotes

1. The song on this list that lives up to its title the least.
2. The song on this list that lives up to its title the most.
3. There’s a moment of silence between the bridge and the chorus, and it makes the song sound disjointed.
4. Love the environmentalist message, but the song’s a bit dull.
